Welcome to Architecting Modern iOS Apps,
Part 1.
My name is Dave DeLong,
and I am one of the
App Frameworks evangelists.
In this session,
we're going to be taking a look
at some of the great new features
of the iOS 7 SDK and peeling back
the hood and looking at how some
of these features actually work.
We're going to be focusing
on three main areas.
The topic of motion, which we've already
heard a little bit about.
The changes to UI view controller.
And then we're going to
finish up looking at Text Kit.
So first up, motion.
The first part of motion,
as we've already heard a little
bit about already from Mike,
has to do with motion effects.
Motion effects are a great way to add
subtle depth to your user interface.
Let's take a look at an example.
On this screen, you can see an alert view
being shown in the Safari app.
And we can tell simply by
watching this that there is depth,
that the alert view is
floating on top of the tabs.
And it's kind of hard to see
how this is actually happening.
But for emphasis,
I want to show what this UI would
look like if we didn't have
any motion effects applied.
So...
Here's that same screen again,
except on the right,
we have removed the motion effects.
You can tell that on the right,
the interface feels much flatter.
There is no depth to it.
Whereas the normal interface on
the left feels much more natural.
But as you're watching this,
it's hard to intuit what
is actually going on.
So here it is again.
Except this time,
I've removed the perspective
as the screen moves around.
So what we can actually see is
happening is that we're simply
repositioning the alert view
as the user tilts their device.
That's all we need to do to
add that motion effect to this
alert view to get this wonderful
feeling of depth to our interface.
is a very good example of this.
It is very trivial to do this in iOS 7
using the new UI Motion Effect class.
This is an abstract class.
It is extremely easy for you to subclass.
There is simply one method, I believe,
you have to override.
And through this method,
you receive processed updates
from the accelerometer.
These updates give you a value that you
can use to represent some sort of change.
Now, this is all very abstract.
And so to make it easier for you,
we have created a concrete
subclass of this called
UI Interpolating Motion Effect.
And it is probably this class
that you are going to be using
the most in your applications.
Here is how it works.
First up,
we're going to create an interpolating
motion effect to say that we want to
alter the center.x property of our view.
So we want to alter its
horizontal position.
And we want to change the view's
horizontal position as they tilt their
device along the horizontal axis.
Next, we need to specify a
relative range of values.
And so here we're going to say that
we're allowed to shift our view up
to 40 points in either direction.
I want to point out here that
these values are not primitives.
They're not a float or an
integer that you're passing in.
It's an actual object.
And that's because interpolating
motion effect can operate on
much more than scalar values.
You can interpolate between
arbitrary affine transforms,
for example.
Next, we're going to create
another emotion effect,
but this time alter the
view's center.y property,
so it will shift along its vertical axis.
And again, like before,
we specify a range of values,
so again allowing it to shift up
to 40 points in either direction.
Now, at this point,
we could take these two motion effects
and apply them to our single view.
But for the sake of efficiency,
we're going to group them.
We're going to do that with
another UI Motion Effects subclass
called UI Motion Effect Group.
Now, the advantage of grouping motion
effects means that we can take the
updates provided by these two motion
effects and apply all of their changes
to our view in a single operation.
If we did not group them, then first,
as the motion effects receive
values from the accelerometer,
the first motion effect would
alter the view's center.x property.
And then the second motion effect would
alter the view's center.y property.
But by grouping them into a
single motion effect group,
we can alter both the x and
the y values simultaneously.
So with the group created,
we simply use the new method on UIView,
addMotionEffect.
And that's all we need to do to
add a motion effect to our views.
So that was motion effects.
Very easy.
The next thing I want to talk about
in the topic of motion is dynamics.
If you haven't heard about this already,
Dynamics is a very easy way
to add realistic physics-like
interactions to your views.
We have a physics-like engine
under the hood that performs at
frame rate calculations to move
your views around and see if
they're colliding with each other.
We can have your views
attached to springs.
We can affect them by gravity or
even attach them to arbitrary points.
The possibilities here are endless.
One thing I want to do
point out about Dynamics,
however, is that this is not meant
to be a game engine.
Dynamics exists to
enhance your interface,
as it already is.
It's not meant to create some new game.
For that,
you would want to look at SpriteKit.
As Mike has shown us already,
we're using Dynamics on the
lock screen to give a lifelike
feel to this lock screen view.
So we can see that there's
elasticity to the view that
affects how high it bounces.
It reacts according to how
hard you throw it down.
If you drag the view up and
then slam your finger down,
the view reacts accordingly.
It is very lifelike in its interaction.
So we're not going to get too in-depth
into Dynamics in this session,
but we had three sessions at WWDC this
year that went in-depth into all of the
things that you can do with Dynamics.
We're going to take a little bit
of a look at them in a few minutes
as we look at custom transitions,
but I highly encourage you to
check out these three sessions.
Next,
let's talk about custom transitions.
The motion effects that we saw,
you can use to add subtle
movement to your interface.
And with Dynamics,
you can add realistic movement.
With custom transitions,
as we saw in Mike's presentation earlier,
you can model movement between entire
different areas of your application,
like we saw in the photos example.
These are transitions that can
be contextually relevant and very
engaging and provide a lot of
information to the user simply in
how views move around the screen.
Now, if you've taken a look at the API,
it might be a little bit complex,
because everything in this
API is defined by protocols.
It's very abstract.
However,
having a protocol-based API allows
us to have an extremely flexible API.
And we're going to see how
these protocols play with each
other to give you the power of
implementing custom transitions.
Now, two key things to know
about custom transitions is,
first,
that the animations happen in a sandbox.
UI Kit really likes it when your
app stays in a consistent state.
And when you're in the
middle of a transition,
you're not always in a consistent state.
Some view controller might
be partially on the screen,
another might be
partially off the screen,
and so on.
And so to keep UIKit happy,
we'd perform these
transitions in a sandbox.
And then it's up to you to
tell the framework when your
transition has completed.
But with custom transitions,
you can implement, for example,
your own crossfade transition,
where you can easily crossfade between,
for example, this beautiful orange
view and a green view.
This is about the extent
of my design skills.
So what are the objects involved?
Well, the very first thing is called
the transitioning delegate.
This is a new property
on UIViewController.
When a view controller
is presented in iOS 7,
it will first ask its
transitioning delegate,
"Do I have a custom transition?"
will provide an object.
By providing an object,
the delegate is saying, yes,
there is a custom transition involved.
If it returns nil,
then there is no custom transition,
and it should go with
whatever the default is.
Now, the transitioning delegate will
differentiate between the presentation
of a view controller and the
dismissal of a view controller,
and we'll see in a few minutes
why that can be extremely useful.
So the object that the transitioning
delegate returns conforms to the
animated transitioning protocol.
This animated transitioning protocol
defines two key pieces of information.
The first is how long
the transition takes.
And the second is what
the actual transition is.
The other thing that this transitioning
object needs to do in its implementation
of these methods is report when the
transition has actually completed.
It reports that via an object
that's passed in as a parameter
to one of these methods,
that is the transition context.
An object that performs to the protocol
UI view controller context transitioning.
You'll almost never need to create
one of these objects yourselves.
They are provided by
the framework for you.
And as its name implies,
this object contains metadata
about the transition.
It includes information as
to which view controllers are
participating in the transition,
what the sandbox is,
what their initial and
final frames might be,
and so on.
And it is through this context that you
report that the transition has completed.
So let's see how these
objects all play together.
Let's start by presenting
a view controller.
As we learned just a minute ago,
the ViewController is going to
ask its transitioning delegate
if it has a custom transition.
In our case,
we do have a custom transition,
so the transitioning delegate will create
one of these animated transitioning
objects and return it to indicate that,
yes, we do have a custom transition.
This object is passed back through
the view controller to the framework,
which keeps a reference to it.
Next,
the framework will tell the animated
transitioning object to animate,
to perform the transition.
And along with this message,
it provides the context for
the transition that indicates
the view controllers involved,
and so on.
Now,
when the animated transitioning object
receives this perform transition method,
It can now do whatever animation it wants
to to actually perform the transition.
When that animation has completed,
the animated transitioning object then
tells the context that it is finished.
And the context passes that
information back to the framework.
The extra objects are cleaned up,
and that's a custom transition.
But this is a very
simple custom transition.
This is one that would have
a predefined animation.
But there are times when we want to
have a transition that's actually
defined by the user interacting,
perhaps, with some objects on the screen.
So for that,
we need to do an interactive transition.
An important thing to realize about
an interactive transition is that the
interactive portion of the transition
actually happens before the animation.
If you're familiar with the drag
from the left edge of the screen to
go back gesture that's new in iOS 7,
You don't actually have to
drag your finger all the way
across the screen to go back.
You can just drag it part of the way.
And when you release your finger,
there's still some animation that
needs to be performed to return the
views to a wholly consistent state.
Dave DeLoong And so the
first part of that gesture,
or the first part of that transition,
as you're dragging your thumb
or finger across the string,
is the interactive portion.
And then when interactive ends,
the interactive portion ends,
there is still animation to be performed.
Dave DeLoong And so that is
why the interactive portion
comes before the animation.
Like we saw before,
these methods are defined on
the transitioning delegate.
So going back to the lock screen example,
this is an interactive transition.
We are transitioning between
the slide to unlock screen and
the camera view that's behind.
It's interactive because
it's defined by a gesture.
We have no idea how long it will take.
The user could place their
finger on the screen and just
move it up and down for hours.
We really have no idea
what they're going to do.
and the framework needs
to accommodate this.
So we do.
We do this with an interactive
transitioning object.
This is another object that's returned
by the transitioning delegate.
And it is an object that watches
for interaction and notifies,
via the context,
how the interaction is happening.
It will notify when it is canceled,
or it will notify when it
is successfully completed.
Now, to make this a little bit easier for
you-- it's not all protocols-- we have
implemented the interactive transitioning
object protocol for you on a
UI percent-driven interactive transition.
This is a concrete implementation of
the interactive transitioning protocol.
And it will work out of the box
with any UIView animation API.
You can simply wrap up
your UIView animations
inside an animated transitioning object,
then supply one of these
percent-driven interactive transitions,
and just like that,
your UIView animation calls
will become interactive.
It is easily subclassable,
so you can tweak things.
Very easy to use.
So let's see how this fits in.
Again, with the ViewController
that we want to present.
Like before, the View Controller has
its transition delegate,
except now,
Well, it will first again ask if
there's a custom transition.
And like before,
we have a custom transition.
And so we're going to create that
same animated transitioning object
and return it back to the frameworks.
Except now--
The View Controller is also going
to ask its transitioning delegate,
"Do you have an interactive
transition for me?" Or in other words,
"Is this animated transitioning
object that you just gave me part
of an interactive transition?"
And the transitioning delegate will
return an object that conforms to the
interactive transitioning protocol.
Might be the same object,
might be a different one.
That's why they're protocols.
And by returning this
interactive transitioning object,
we indicate that this will
be an interactive transition.
And that object, as well,
is given to the framework.
Except now,
since the framework has both the
interactive transitioning object and
the animated transitioning object,
it first starts with the interactive
portion of the transition.
And it does that by telling the
interactive transitioning object
to start watching for interaction.
And with that message,
provides that same context
that we saw earlier.
Now,
this interactive transitioning object can
be watching for any sort of interaction.
Most commonly,
it's going to be a gesture on the screen.
And as the user moves their
fingers across the screen,
you're going to be performing something.
You're going to be doing some calculation
to figure out approximately how much
of this transition has completed.
And you're going to be notifying,
via this context, how much has occurred.
Maybe 20%, then 42%, then 60%, and so on.
And you're going to send this update
message as many times as you want.
At some point, however,
the user will lift their
finger off the screen.
That is inevitable.
And when they do,
it's up to you to decide if they
have moved the views involved far
enough for the transition to complete,
or if things should be reverted
back to their initial state.
We do this.
We make this decision and indicate
to the context whether we should
finish the interactive portion or
cancel the interactive portion.
The context stores this information
and relays on to the framework that
we are done with the interactive
portion of our transition.
But remember, we're not done yet,
because we still might need to
perform some cleanup animations.
And so, this is where the animated
transitioning object comes in.
And like before, it is told to animate,
and is again given that same context.
It again will perform
whatever animations it wants.
perhaps it doesn't need to perform any,
and it will notify it through
the context that it is finished.
When the context gets this final
message that the animated transitioning
object has finished its animations,
then all of these extra
objects are cleaned up.
and the animation and
transition complete.
So this is a lot of information.
So what I want to do now is I want
to switch to the demo machine.
and show you how we actually build
an interactive custom transition.
So again, I have employed my
wonderful design skills.
I have a lovely orange view here with
a single button that says Present.
And when we tap this button,
it is going to present my green view.
So let's see how we're going to do this.
In my first view controller, I'm going
When we tap the button,
we're going to create our second
view controller and set the second
view controller's transitioning
delegate to be the first view
controller so that as the second
view controller is being presented,
it will ask the first one if it should
be done using a custom transition.
And here, it will ask us through
this wonderful method,
animation controller for presenting
controller source controller.
We love long names.
And here, we're simply going to create a
crossfade transition and return that.
It's all we're going to do.
This crossfade transition
is very trivial.
We're going to define that
this is a transition that will
take approximately two seconds.
This is so that it's easy for you to see
the effect that it's going to perform.
And then in the actual animation,
will retrieve some
information from the context,
such as the view controllers involved,
the frames that they're coming from,
and going to the sandbox view in
which these animations take place.
And then all we're going to do
is simply change the alphas of
these views to fade out one as we
simultaneously fade in another.
And this is how we're
going to do our crossfade.
Now, when this animation completes,
like we learned just a few minutes ago,
we need to notify to the
context that we finished.
So that's how we do this here,
using this complete transition method.
And by passing in yes,
we are indicating that this
is a successful transition.
So let's run this.
And I can tap here on
this Present button,
and I get a nice,
wonderful two-second crossfade.
So what about this drag down to dismiss?
Well, on the second view controller,
things get a little bit more complicated.
So here, as the view loads,
I'm going to create a drag
to dismiss transition object
and give it a source view.
Now, by doing this,
the drag to dismiss transition
is going to create the gesture
recognizer to detect the drag.
And by assigning this dismiss
transition a delegate,
it can notify to us when the user
starts dragging on the screen.
So when we first notice the
user dragging on the screen,
we'll set our transitioning
delegate to be ourselves.
Now, this is kind of curious,
because if we didn't do this,
then as we started dragging to
dismiss their second view controller,
it would still be trying to ask the
first one how it should dismiss.
But the first view controller doesn't
know anything about the gesture
recognizer involved in this transition.
And so we're going to set
this view controller to be its
own transitioning delegate,
such that when we are asked for
the animated transitioning and
interactive transitioning objects,
we have an actual object
that we can return.
And this is where the power
of this API comes into play,
because we are going to return the
same object as both the animated
transitioning object and the
interactive transitioning object.
So this is a single object
that has a dual purpose.
This is why protocols are so wonderful.
So let's take a look at this
drag to dismiss transition.
So like I said, when we create one,
we're going to create a pan gesture
recognizer and add it to the view so that
we know when the user starts dragging.
And when the user starts dragging
and gesture recognizer state began,
all we're going to do is notify
to the delegate that the drag to
dismiss transition did begin dragging.
As we saw a second ago,
this will dismiss the view controller.
And since we are returning this object
as the interactive transitioning object,
We will get this message
from the framework:
Start interactive transition.
So like the crossfade animation,
we still need to set up the sandbox.
So this is very similar code to
what we saw just a few minutes ago,
where we're going to retrieve
the view controllers involved,
get their frames,
add them to that transition container.
And we're going to remember some
information about where the user was
touching on the screen so that it
can be moving relative to the finger.
But that's all we're going to do.
Now, as the user continues to drag and
the gesture recognizer state changes,
we're going to simply update the
center property of this view so
that it will move with our finger.
And as we do so,
we're going to tell the context
to update and give it an
approximate percentage completed,
so a number between 0 and 1,
indicating how much of this
transition we have approximately done.
And all we're doing here is we're
simply estimating this based on how
far down the screen the view has moved.
Now, at some point, though,
the user is going to lift
their finger off the screen.
And when they do,
we need to figure out if we
should finish the interaction
or if we should cancel it.
So here I have decided that if
they move the view at least a
third of the way down the screen,
then we should consider that good enough
and we'll finish the transition for them.
And if they're still in the
top third of the screen,
then we will cancel it and
go back to the beginning.
Let's look at the success case.
Here, we're going to get a little fancy.
We're going to use Dynamics.
So Dynamics, with Dynamics here,
we're going to set up
our dynamic animator,
which is kind of like the physics engine.
And we're going to give it the
reference view of the container so
all of the physical interactions
will happen within this container.
And all we're going to do is we're
going to create some gravity.
And we want the view to fall
off the bottom of the screen.
And so we're going to give it a
large gravity so that we're not
waiting it to slowly accelerate down.
So we're going to give
it a vector down of 4.
And then we're going to use
this property of a dynamic
behavior called the action block.
And the action block is an
arbitrary block of a UI dynamic
behavior that gets executed on
every tick of the physics engine.
And we're going to use this block
to determine if the view has
totally fallen off the screen.
So the action block is a great
place to perform this check,
because it's going to be
updated every single frame,
every time the view moves.
And since it's falling,
it's always moving.
And so we're simply going to look
is the percentage
completed greater than one,
which would mean that it's
all the way off the screen.
And if it is,
then we will turn off our dynamic
animator by removing all of the
behaviors and tell ourselves
to complete the transition.
So that's what the action
block is going to do.
But then to finish this up,
we just add the gravity behavior
to our dynamic animator and then
tell our context that we are now
done with the interactive portion.
is the first person to use the Gain app.
He's the first person
to use the Gain app.
And he's the first person
So he's the first person
to use the Gain app.
And he's the first person
And here we're going to do something,
again, kind of similar, again,
with Dynamics.
So that same sort of setup,
except here we're just going
to snap the view back into
place using a snap behavior.
So we give it a view to snap into
place and give it a point to snap to.
And we're going to
give it a load damping,
which means that it's going to
oscillate a lot so we can see
that it's actually snapping.
And again, we're going to use the action
block to know when this is
approximately completed.
And we're going to do that by looking
to see if our frame is within one
point of its original location.
[ Transcript missing ]
We will make sure the view is
actually in its original location.
Again, remove all the behaviors to
turn off the physics engine and
then complete the transition.
So we add that snap
behavior to our animator,
and then say,
because the user didn't drag far enough,
that we are going to cancel
the interactive transition.
So the user lifts their
finger off the screen.
We're either going to drop the view
off the bottom of the screen or it
will snap back to its original place.
When either the view has totally
fallen off the screen or has
finished snapping back into place,
we're going to complete this transition.
And here,
all we really need to do is tell
the context that we are done.
And when the context
receives this message,
complete transition,
then the entire transition is totally
complete and everything will go back
to being in a wholly consistent state.
So let's run this again.
Like we saw before,
we can tap to present and get this
nice little two-second crossfade.
Now I can tap on the screen, drag down,
and if I only drag down part of the way,
when I release my finger,
it's going to snap back into place,
like this.
And we could see that
by having a low damping,
we saw that oscillation going on.
But if I drag down further,
so more than a third of
the way down the screen,
when I release my finger,
it's going to fall off
the bottom like that.
So these are some of the neat things
that you can do with custom transitions.
The possibilities are endless.
That was a brief look at
custom interactive transitions.
Now this is great for
defining your own transitions.
But what about built-in transitions?
What if you want to
participate along with those?
Many of you have been requesting
throughout the years that you want
to know-- you want to participate
with the built-in transitions.
Maybe you want things to animate
alongside everything else.
Well,
I'm happy to announce that in iOS 7,
you can totally do that.
There is yet another protocol
involving coordinating transitions.
You can receive this
transition coordinator while
a transition is in flight.
And via this transition coordinator,
you can attach extra
things to animate along.
You can receive updates about
when the transition completes.
You can get that same context, and so on.
You can now participate
in built-in transitions.
And that is a look at Motion in iOS 7.
So let's move on to UIViewController,
the heart and soul of every iOS app.
You should all be familiar
with UIViewController.
So we made some changes to
ViewControllers in iOS 7.
The first one has to do with a
concept that we call extended layout.
In iOS 6,
the content of a view controller lived
below the navigation bar in this area.
In iOS 7, we are putting the emphasis
on the user's content,
which means we want their
content to fill the screen.
And so now the content extends--
hence extended layout-- to fill the
screen and takes up the entire screen.
And so the content
underlaps the status bar.
This behavior is controlled by a
new property on UIViewController
called the edges for extended layout.
And by default,
it is rect edge all to indicate
that all edges of your view
should extend to fill the screen.
However, if you like,
you may change this.
Maybe you have content that
doesn't need to go behind the
status bar or is not large enough.
You can change this property,
for example,
to UIREctEdgeNone to indicate that your
content should still live below the
navigation bar and above a tab bar,
for example.
This behavior of having content
move behind the status bar,
though, means that we need to change a
little bit how scroll views work.
Because we still want scroll views
to scroll behind the status bar,
but we don't want them to
start behind the status bar.
That would be very awkward.
We would be chopping off the top
approximately 64 points of our content.
And so we have another property.
on UI View Controller to automatically
adjust the content insets of
your scroll bars to account for
navigation bars and tab bars.
We call this property automatically
adjusts scroll view insets.
And the default for this property is yes,
which means that the scroll view itself
will still extend to fill the screen,
as the edges for extended
layout property defines.
However, the content will come to rest
below the navigation bar,
or above the tab bar.
We adjust both the content inset
and the scroll view indicator inset,
so it still looks like your scroll
view is still positioned between
the navigation and tab bars,
but will scroll behind them.
I should mention, however,
that if you are performing any sort
of manipulations to the content
insets of your scroll views yourself,
you should really turn this off,
because we can't anticipate how
your content insets will change.
And so if you leave this on
while changing the content inset,
you can really confuse your scroll views.
So turn this off if you're
changing those yourselves.
Now, because content scrolls
behind the status bar,
we also need to change how
we refer to the status bar.
So on iOS 6,
we had a solid color background,
a tinted background.
You could even define your
own custom color for it.
But now in iOS 7, the status bar actually
doesn't have a background.
It is transparent and simply takes on
the appearance of whatever is behind it.
This means that we need a new way
to refer to how a status bar looks.
So we're going to take the status
bar style that we're used to
and change its meaning slightly.
So we're still going to have
UI status bar style default.
And what this means is that the default
style of the status bar's content,
so the signal strength indicator dots,
the time string, the battery percentage,
all of that should be darkly
colored because the status bar
itself is on top of light views.
In this case, a white one.
Then there is the other style,
which is UI status bar
style light content,
which means that the contents of
the status bar themselves should
be lightly colored because the view
behind it is a dark colored view.
Now the other big change that we've
made to view controllers is that you
can now specify the style of the status
bar on a per-view controller basis.
Prior to iOS 7,
you had to manually manage the state
of and style of the status bar through
these methods on UI application.
Fortunately,
you don't need to worry about that
anymore because we have new methods
on UI view controller to do this.
So there's a method you can override on
your view controller called preferred
status bar style to indicate how
the status bar should look when this
view controller's view is behind it.
So the default is, of course,
status bar style default,
but you can override this to return
the light content style instead.
or maybe you want the status
bar to be hidden entirely.
So you should override.
The prefersStatusBarHidden
method to return yes,
so that you want the status bar hidden.
Or you can leave it as no to say that
the status bar should be present.
Now,
there are situations where we want the
status bar to come and go dynamically.
And so if you want to change the
visibility or style of the status bar,
you can do that now by this new
method on UIViewController called
setNeedStatusBarAppearanceUpdate.
When you invoke this method,
we will re-ask the view controller
what the preferred style for
the status bar should be,
and we will apply those
styles to the status bar.
And when you invoke
it like this directly,
the changes are applied
instantaneously like this.
As we learned about in
the previous session,
this can be a bit of a jarring
transition for the user.
We want more animation to indicate that
the status bar has actually disappeared.
Maybe it's faded or
slid out or something.
And so it's really easy to control
that now simply by wrapping that call
to setNeedStatusBarAppearanceUpdate
inside a UIView animation block.
I hope you're realizing
the implications of this.
In iOS 7,
you can now have explicit control
over the animation of the status bar.
You can control the timing duration,
the animation curve.
You can make it appear and disappear
as part of a keyframe animation.
The possibilities are endless.
So by putting this call
inside this animation block,
the status bar will now nicely fade out.
Like that.
But as I said,
maybe you don't want it to fade out.
Maybe you want it to slide.
So you can override yet
another method called Preferred
Status Bar Update Animation and return
the slide animation style to indicate
that the status bar should instead slide
off the top of the screen like this.
So those are some of the
changes to the status bar.
You can now customize it on
a per-view controller basis.
Because content now moves
behind the status bar,
we have this concept of extended
layout and automatically
adjusting scroll view insets.
With the changes to
the status bar as well,
you can have explicit control over
the animation of the status bar.
A lot of things that were very,
very difficult to do in
previous versions of iOS.
Those are some of the changes
of UI View Controller.
I want to finish by
talking about Text Kit.
Text Kit is not a framework whose
headers you've been unable to find.
There is no textkit.h hiding
anywhere inside the SDK.
It is part of UI Kit.
However,
we felt that the changes involved
to text layout and text rendering
were so significant that it warranted
its own name and its own icon.
And so we created this name of Text Kit.
But it really is just part of UI Kit.
But with Text Kit,
your apps can do beautiful
page layout like this,
where you have your
content divided into pages.
And within each page
divided into columns,
you can have your text
wrap around objects,
such as this text that is
wrapping around a trophy.
You can have rich text attachments,
like this ornate T at the
beginning of a paragraph.
All sorts of beautiful
things that you can do.
Now, chances are most of you are
not writing an app like Pages.
And so most of you probably won't
need to build something like this.
However, that does not mean that
Text Kit is not for you.
We're going to talk about three key
features of Text Kit that you all should
be starting to use in your apps today.
But if you really want to know more
about the pagination and page layout
and so on that you can do with Text Kit,
we again had three sessions from
this year's WWDC that I would
highly encourage you to go watch.
But the three features that we're
going to focus on in our few
remaining minutes are text styles,
dynamic type, and font descriptors.
So text styles are pretty simple.
It's simply a way to refer
to a font by its purpose.
And so we've defined these constants
in UI Kit to refer to a font that
might be used for headline content,
or a font that might be
used to stylize your body,
your primary content,
or a font that might be used
to stylize text that appears
underneath an image as a caption.
Dave DeLoong So this is text styles.
By simply invoking a class method
on UI font called preferred
font for text style and passing
in one of these constants,
you will get back a UI font that
is customized for that scenario.
So this is a very easy way
to not have to worry about...
[ Transcript missing ]
or a large font size.
We should be respecting
the user's preferences.
Now, how do we do this?
Well, it's very simple.
We use these text styles
that I just talked about.
When you ask for the preferred
font for one of these text styles,
we will give you back a font object
that takes into account the user's
chosen content size in the Settings app.
But like other parts of the Settings app,
this content size can change
while your app is running.
And so to react appropriately to that,
you would need to listen to
this new notification called
UI Content Size Category
to Change Notification.
When you receive this notification,
this would be the appropriate time
to get new preferred fonts and
reapply them to your interface.
Going back to this slide.
As you watch the text size
of these cells change,
what I want you to notice
is what does not change.
And that is the text
in the navigation bar.
Because this slider in the
Settings app is affecting the
content size of the content.
And the text in the navigation bar
is not part of the user's content.
That's simply part of the
navigation of the app.
Again, this goes back to the principle
of putting the emphasis
on the user's content.
So that's dynamic type.
The third feature of Text Kit that
you all can start using today
is called font descriptors.
If we think about where fonts fall
in the model view controller pattern,
they really are actually kind of
objects at the view level because
they describe how things look.
They're really only ever used with views.
They're kind of view level objects.
So we can think then of font descriptors
as the model that backs a font.
A font descriptor will contain all
of the information about the font,
what font family it is, its face,
its point size, its attributes,
and so on.
It is very,
very cheap to create these objects.
You can create loads of them and
not be adversely affected by that,
whereas that would have been very
difficult to do with UI font.
One of the other neat advantages
of font descriptors is that it
makes it easy to compose fonts.
So you can say,
give me the font descriptor
for this one font,
but apply in this point size of
another font and the attributes
or the traits of a third font.
And using font descriptors,
you can build up combinations of
fonts in ways that would have been
somewhat difficult to do before.
These fonts, as I said,
are extremely cheap.
They're easy to archive,
so you can include them in whatever
objects you're writing out to disk.
And these should be the primary ways
that you refer to fonts in your code.
And then only convert these
font descriptors to actual font
objects as you are about to place
them in your user interface.
But where font descriptors come in
is that they make it really easy
to emulate dynamic type if you're
using custom fonts in your app.
So let's see how that would look.
Like I mentioned,
we need to listen to this content
size category to change notification
so that we know when the user changes
that slider in the Settings app.
And when they do--
We will ask the UI application
object for the preferred content
size category and get back a
constant that indicates whether
they want their content to be small,
medium, large, extra,
extra large if they have
accessibility turned on,
and so on.
And here, in each one of these cases,
we would create the font
descriptors that are appropriate
for a headline font style,
a body text style, and so on.
And like I said,
we can compose these font descriptors
by taking attributes of various fonts,
combining them together, and so on.
So, using font descriptors,
you can still take advantage of the
dynamic type feature while still using
custom fonts in your application.
So, those are just some of the ways
that you can adopt Text Kit,
even if you don't have an
app that's complicated,
like Pages, because there is a lot in
it that everybody can use.
So, you can use... Text styles.
Use UI font descriptors for
referring to your fonts in
a cheap and easy-to-use way.
And, of course,
listen to the dynamic type
notification so that we can react
intelligently to the user's decisions.
And that's a brief look at Text Kit,
and it completes our tour of
new features in UI Kit in iOS 7.